Israel and Hamas are believed to be negotiating a deal to free dozens of people in Hamas captivity in exchange for a three-day ceasefire, according to the Reuters news agency and Axios, a US-based digital publication. Qatari mediators are seeking to negotiate the deal, which could also see the release of some Palestinian women and children from Israeli jails.

The deal is still under discussion in coordination with the United States – a close ally of Israel – some of whose citizens are among the captives.

Part of the deal includes the release of about 50 civilian captives in Gaza, a rapid jump from previous reports that suggested Hamas would release 10-15 captives. Hamas would also have to divulge the complete list of remaining living civilian hostages held in Gaza, according to an official briefed on the negotiations.

Israel too would release some Palestinian women and children from Israeli jails. However, how many would be released is not known yet. Israel would also increase the amount of humanitarian aid allowed into Gaza, the official said.

Qatar, where Hamas operates a political office, has a direct line of communication with both Israel and Hamas and has previously worked on negotiating truces between the two. Qatari mediation efforts have so far led to the release of four out of around 240 hostages who Israeli officials estimate were taken by Hamas on October 7.

The Qatari Ministry of Foreign Affairs declined to comment on the deal.

US President Joe Biden said that he was “mildly hopeful” that there would be a deal to free Hamas-held captives on Wednesday.

There was no immediate response from Israeli officials, who have previously declined to provide detailed comment on negotiations to release the captives.

But the official involved in the negotiations said that Israel has not agreed to the terms of the deal and is still negotiating the details.

Meanwhile, Israel has continued to bombard Gaza and its forces raided the al-Shifa Hospital – the enclave’s largest medical facility. The Israeli military assault has so far killed more than 11,000 Palestinians, around 40 percent of them children, with more buried under the rubble.

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said on Tuesday that “we have been working relentlessly for the release of the hostages, including using increased pressure since the start of the ground incursion”.

He has been under pressure from the families of the captives, who have urged the government to negotiate their release.

What did Hamas say?
Izzat El Rashq, a member of the Hamas political bureau, did not directly confirm the deal under discussion when asked by Reuters. There was also no immediate comment from the Hamas political office in Doha.

Thai Muslim politicians said on Thursday they had received assurances from Hamas that all the Thai hostages being held would be among those released if mediators succeed in brokering a truce in Gaza.

Hamas’s armed wing, the Qassam Brigades, said on Monday that it had told Qatari negotiators it was willing to release up to 70 women and children in return for a five-day truce, according to Reuters.

How many captives have been released so far?
Four captives have been released so far after negotiations through diplomatic channels with mediation from countries that have included Qatar and Egypt.

On October 20, Hamas released the first captives – US citizens Judith Raanan, 59, and her daughter, Natalie Raanan, 17 – saying it was for “humanitarian reasons”.

On October 23, two Israeli women – Nurit Cooper, 79, and Yocheved Lifshitz, 85 – were also released.

According to the Israeli military, a fifth person, a soldier, Private Ori Megidish, was rescued on October 30 during a ground raid inside Gaza.

Citizens of Russia, the United States, France, Spain, Italy, Thailand, Germany, Argentina and the Netherlands are believed to be among those in Hamas captivity. Thailand is in talks with Iran and other governments to secure the release of 23 of its citizens held in Gaza.

Israeli air raids have killed dozens of people, including children, in northern, central, and southern Gaza, Palestinian officials and media have said, as the besieged territory endures its 44th day of bombardment.

At least 31 people were killed in Israeli attacks on the Bureij and Nuseirat refugee camps in central Gaza, the Ministry of Health in the Hamas-governed enclave said on Sunday.

A woman and her child were also killed in strikes in southern Khan Younis city, Palestinian news agency Wafa reported.

Israeli forces also shot dead two people, including a disabled man, during incursions in the occupied West Bank, Wafa reported.

Issam al-Fayed, a 46-year-old disabled man, was killed at the entrance of the Jenin refugee camp, while 20-year-old Omar Laham was killed at the Dheisheh refugee camp south of Bethlehem, Wafa said.

‘Our life is hell’
The killings come on the heels of devastating assaults on schools and refugee camps in northern Gaza.

At least 50 people were killed in an attack on Al Fakhoura school in the Jabalia refugee camp on Saturday, Gaza’s Health Ministry said, while dozens of casualties were reported from an attack on a second school in Tall az-Zaatar.

“The scenes were horrifying. Corpses of women and children were on the ground. Others were screaming for help,” Ahmed Radwan, a wounded survivor of Al Fakhoura attack, told The Associated Press news agency.

“Dead bodies [are] scattered … pieces of flesh”, an unnamed witness told Al Jazeera. “No one can recognise their sons. Our life is hell.”

Marwan Bishara, a senior political analyst for Al Jazeera, said Al Fakhoura school could be described as the “al-Shifa of schools” as it has been repeatedly hit by Israeli forces like al-Shifa Hospital, Gaza’s largest medical facility, which has been a major target of Israel’s military campaign.

“There is nothing discriminate about the fact that a school that shelters thousands of people has been bombed from the air; that is meant to create damage, human loss, suffering and death,” Bishara said.

Patients fleeing al-Shifa
Meanwhile, al-Shifa Hospital continued to be the focus of humanitarian concerns as hundreds of people fled the facility on foot on orders from the Israeli army, according to its director.

Columns of sick and injured – some of them amputees – were seen leaving with displaced people, doctors, and nurses on Saturday, as loud explosions were heard around the complex.

Philippe Lazzarini, head of the UN agency for Palestinian refugees UNRWA, described “horrifying images” of the scene, while Egypt called the bombing a “war crime” and “a deliberate insult to the United Nations”.

A World Health Organization assessment team on Sunday said 291 patients were left at the hospital. They included 32 babies in extremely critical condition, trauma patients with severely infected wounds and others with spinal injuries who are unable to move, the UN health agency said.

Since Palestinian group Hamas launched its surprise attack on Israeli territory on October 7, Israel has waged a devastating air and ground assault on Gaza, killing at least 11,500 people, more than a third of them children, according to Gaza officials.

The 44-day war has displaced some 1.5 million Palestinians, wrecked much of the territory’s infrastructure and sparked a desperate humanitarian crisis, aid workers say.