Israel, Hamas and the US have reached a tentative deal that would ensure the release of 50 or more hostages, and a five-day pause in the ongoing fighting, the Washington Post said in a report.

As part of a six-page agreement, hostages would be released in small batches, every 24 hours, in exchange for a pause in the ongoing ground operation of the Israeli forces against Hamas in Gaza.

However, a White House spokesperson dismissed reports of Israel and Hamas agreeing to a temporary ceasefire deal. "No deal yet but we continue to work hard to get a deal," Adrienne Watson, spokesperson for the White House's National Security Council, said in a statement, reported Reuters.

A second official also confirmed no deal had been reached.

It was earlier reported that close to 240 people were taken hostage by Hamas following the October 7 surprise attack on Israel. It is not clear how many of these hostages would be released as part of the US-brokered deal.

According to the Washington Post report, the ground movement would be monitored by overhead surveillance, which would help police with the five-day pause.

The temporary stopping of the ongoing operation in Gaza is also intended to allow a significant amount of humanitarian aid, including fuel, to enter the enclave from Egypt.

The release of hostages and the five-day pause in the operation in Gaza could begin in the next few days. However, a spokesperson for the Israeli Embassy in Washington refused to comment on the hostage situation and the reported deal.

The deal was put together among Israel, the US and Hamas, during a round of talks in Doha, and was led by Qatari mediators, the Washington Post reported.

The development comes not so long after Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu denied passing up on a serious deal for the release of 50 hostages.

He said there was "no deal on the table" and that the release of hostages is a "priority".

"We want to get back all the hostages. We’re doing the utmost to bring back the most possible, including in stages, and we are united on this," the Times of Israel quoted Netanyahu as saying.

Israel vowed to destroy Hamas after the group's October 7 rampage into Israel killed 1,200 people and took 240 hostages. Meanwhile, authorities in the Hamas-ruled Gaza Strip said that 12,300 have died since the latest conflict began.