Qatari Prime Minister Sheikh Mohammed Bin Abdulrahman al-Thani said on Sunday he had growing confidence that a hostage deal between Israel and Hamas would be reached, adding challenges that remained were "very minor".

"The challenges facing the agreement are just practical and logistical," Sheikh Mohammed said at a joint press conference with European Union foreign policy chief Josep Borrell in Doha.

"The deal is going through ups and downs from time to time throughout the last few weeks. But I think that you know I'm now more confident that we are close enough to reach a deal that can bring the people safely back to their home," he added.

The Washington Post, citing people familiar with the deal, reported earlier in the day that Israel, the U.S. and Hamas militants had reached a tentative agreement to free dozens of women and children held hostage in Gaza in exchange for a five-day pause in fighting.

However, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and U.S. officials said no deal had been reached yet.

On Saturday evening, Israeli and foreign officials told Haaretz that negotiations for the release of Israeli hostages have stalled because, before deciding on its next step, Israel is trying to understand how many hostages – women and children – Hamas intends to release.

“There is no proposal and no deal on the agenda," Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said at a press conference on Saturday night. “We want to bring back all the hostages, and we are making every effort to bring as many of them as possible, even if it is done in stages.”



Hamas said last week that it intended to release about 50 hostages out of about 70 who met the criteria. The terrorist organization said this was because it did not know where all the hostages were being held. It said some of them were being held by other organizations and others by private entities.

Israel believes that most of the hostages are alive. Following the statement by Hamas, Israel sent a message to the group demanding that it release all women and children as part of any deal.

The political echelon fears that Hamas will not fully implement any agreement reached, and in real time may delay the release of all the hostages included in a deal in an attempt to extort further achievements.

Israel did not rule out the possibility of a long lull in the fighting if Hamas allowed the release of a large number of hostages and made it clear that the number of security prisoners – mainly women and minors – that Israel releases depends on the number of hostages released by Hamas.

Political sources told Haaretz that there is no substantive disagreement in the war cabinet on the issue, and that all the ministers can be expected to support a “reasonable deal.” One source said that disagreements in the cabinet last week revolved around “nuances” with regard to attempts to increase the number of hostages released, but that in any event Israel’s next steps will only be decided upon after Hamas makes it clear how many hostages it intends to release.

National Union cabinet ministers Benny Gantz and Gadi Eisenkot called for a deal to go ahead even with a small number of hostages, so as not to risk their lives. Defense Minister Yoav Galant reportedly called for increased military pressure on Hamas in an attempt to improve the terms of the deal; this in line with positions voiced by the military echelon.

On Saturday, the family members of Israelis held by Hamas concluded a five-day march and reached Jerusalem, where they held a rally in front of the Prime Minister’s Office demanding a hostage deal.

Throughout the route of the march, crowds thronged to the intersections and roads to express support for the families. On Friday, some ten thousand people joined and marched with them in solidarity.