Israel and Hamas are reportedly at the threshold brink of closing an agreement to reach a five-day pause in fighting in exchange for the return of women and children held hostage by Hamas in the blockaded Gaza Strip, Washington Post reported.

The report claimed that under a six-page agreement, all parties in the conflict would freeze the state of war for at least five days during which dozens of hostages among a total of 239 will be released in batches every 24 hours.

But White House later clarified that Washington has not reached any such deal but the Biden administration will continue to 'work hard' to conclude one.

"We have not reached a deal yet, but we continue to work hard to get to a deal," Adrienne Watson, the White House National Security Council Spokesperson wrote on X, formerly Twitter.

Israel-Hamas war temporary pause: What is it about?
According to reports in the US media, the outline of a deal was put together during strenuous talks in Qatar immediately after the outbreak of the war in West Asia.

The Biden administration dispatched US Secretary of State Antony Blinken twice since October 7 to diffuse the hostage situation, and de-escalate the prevailing hostilities in the region.

Notably, while the US President Joe Biden himself failed to engage with Palestinian leaders during his West Asia visit last month — after a four way leader summit between leaders of the US-Jordan-Egypt-Palestine Authority was cancelled — UK Prime Minister Rishi Sunak and European Union leaders have managed to engage with both Israeli and Arab leaders. 

It continues to be unclear until now if Israel would agree to temporarily pause in its offensive in Gaza if the Palestinian militant groups fostered in the region fail to return the hostages they took in the aftermath of their attack on Israel on October 7 that killed around 1200 Israelis. 

Israel has since retaliated with constant bombardment to target Hamas infrastructure in the Gaza Strip. The retaliatory state of war in Gaza, however, has killed more than 12,000 Palestinians, mostly children, according to the Hamas-run health ministry.